[THEME MUSIC]
>>EMERY SMITH: Today
on "Cosmic Disclosure,"
we are with Randy Cramer
who has interacted
with different humanoid ET races
during his time serving off
planet.
Randy, welcome to the show.
>>RANDY CRAMER: Thanks
for having me, Emery.
>>EMERY: How many different
ETs have you actually
interacted with, humanoid?
>>CRAMER: Well that's a
very specific question then.
So probably, one of the coolest,
most amazing things that I've
been fortunate to
be able to do was
when I was a pilot
aboard the Nautilus,
we would occasionally
have groups
of ambassadors from the
ambassadorial corps who
would come aboard the ship,
who would be-- we'd basically
be escorting to the
intergalactic space
station that orbits Jupiter.
Because I was essentially
the only officer that
had infantry training,
I got to go along
on these missions as
that just-in-case guy.
But I want to emphasize
that these were missions
to a location which there was--
this wasn't like an alien bar
where a fight might break out.
This was a very regulated
community environment
where a number of species
would get together and be
able to have these
conversations.
So my, quote unquote,
"just-in-case"
was never required.
But I still got to go along.
And the main room
inside the space station
is probably almost a
mile around with floor
to ceiling windows that
probably go 70 or 80 feet high
in a full 360.
Because to accommodate
the variety of species
that might come there
to have a conversation,
the facility uses hard light
holographic generators.
So the difference between
a soft light hologram
and a hard light
hologram is you can
sit on a hard light hologram.
You can't sit on the
soft light hologram.
So they would create
conversational environments,
which the basic
conversational environment--
a table with chairs
on either side,
if that's all that's required.
Depending on the
species interacting
with each other, height
differences, liquid environment
or gaseous environment
differences,
whether they're wearing an
environment suit or not,
all these conversational
environments
could be created
impromptu, and then
deleted as quickly as
they were turned on.
Because it's just computer
code essentially making
these hard light holograms.
And the room, I would
say, all the time
was anywhere from half,
2/3 full, to full.
So it was a very busy place.
And the smallest species I
ever encountered in this room
was about 18 inches high.
The tallest species I ever
encountered in this room was
over 50 feet high, as well as
a wide variety of humanoid,
non-humanoid--
again, cephalopods,
amphibians, species
based on just about
every kind of life
form that you can think
of in an evolved state.
So in that environment, I
would say that I personally
sat across the table from a
few dozen different species.
But I'd say I was within 15
yards during that time of what
would have to be
hundreds of species.
So that's a loaded question.
But I guess the question you
asked was humanoid species.
So humanoid species,
I'd say, would
be maybe only half a
dozen or so half a dozen,
less than a dozen.
>>EMERY: Were they more
conscious and intelligent
than we are?
>>CRAMER: I'd say you
had a range of comparable
to maybe a little bit more
developed along the path
than we are.
But to be honest,
there were more
that I would say were
comparable than I would
say we're way more developed.
I think there's a presumption
that other species are
so much more advanced because
they have space travel.
And I'd like to emphasize
that's not necessarily true.
Space technology,
spaceships do not
guarantee that you're the
smartest species on the block.
Because not everybody gets
their spaceship technology
by inventing it themselves.
They get it from someplace else.
We got our technology
from someplace else.
So it's a pretty wide variation,
to be honest with you.
>>EMERY: Glad you
brought that up.
Because there is this big
misconception out there that,
oh, they're ETs.
They're like the
superheroes of the galaxy.
It's not like that.
>>CRAMER: Not at all.
>>EMERY: It's basically us,
you know, in the future.
But we're still us in a way.
You know what I mean?
>>CRAMER: Absolutely.
>>EMERY: You know what
I'm trying to say here.
>>CRAMER: Yes.
>>EMERY: A lot of
times, I was surprised.
Because I was like, I think
you just mispronounced a word.
Or maybe he's telepathically
not communicating correctly.
But everyone makes
mistakes, especially when
you enter this dimension.
You fall under the
laws of this dimension.
You said there's
thousands of species
and different types of forms.
>>CRAMER: Oh, yeah.
>>EMERY: Were you
able to communicate
with the other species there?
>>CRAMER: Oh yeah, absolutely.
So again, they're creating
conversational environments.
And so depending on the
language barrier or not,
you could have a
variety of translation.
So in some cases, you have
an actual, biological being
acting as a verbal translator.
You may have a physical
biological being
acting as a psionic translator.
There is essentially like a
computer universal translator,
like a box that
sits on the table.
So you talk and the box
translates to their language.
They talk and the box
translates to English.
There was also a
little halo that you
could wear that was like
a psionic communicator.
If the other species in
question was psionically
developed enough, they could
carry the whole conversation.
And you'd be able to engage
in a psionic conversation
without any
additional apparatus.
>>EMERY: So what was the nature
of this interaction of you guys
going to this space station?
What was the agenda there?
>>CRAMER: Anywhere
from what we would
call an initial conversation
with another species, where
maybe we've just
met and it's time
for their ambassadors
and our ambassadors
to sit down and say,
oh, where are you from?
This is where we're from.
This is what our planet's like.
What's your planet like?
And it's as much
of a conversation
that you might just
have with somebody
you met from another country
and want to know about, oh,
what do you like to eat?
And what do you guys
like to listen to?
And what's your art like?
What's your history like?
What's your politics like?
What's your economy like?
What are your items
that you trade
that you have excess trade
items that you would want
to give to us or trade with us?
What do you need
that you don't have
a lot of that we might have?
So those are the
initial conversations.
But certainly, we could
develop into initial treaty
and contract negotiations.
So it could be a treaty.
Or it could be a
real contract where
you're talking about we've
got this much in rare Earth
elements or military hardware
or beer or garments or clothing.
They've got x amount
in minerals or elements
or technology or food or drink.
To be honest though, we make
better beer than just about
anybody else in the galaxy.
>>EMERY: I was going to ask you.
Why the beer?
You said clothes.
You said beer.
>>CRAMER: Well, the
first thing that's
important to know about that is
we didn't invent beer, right?
So as our history tells
us, ancient gods brought,
you know, fermentation
and beer making to us.
And as we know, when
you say ancient god,
you're really just saying
extraterrestrial astronaut
from somewhere else.
So extraterrestrials
brought us fermentation,
brought us beer and wine
and spirits technology.
And this is the thing,
I think, again that
escapes a lot of people.
When they presume that
all of these other species
are so much more advanced
and they make better
stuff than we do, but
they just don't understand
the human creativity component.
There are species
who make something.
And then, you know, if it
ain't broke, don't fix it.
They're a species
who are flying around
in spacecraft that are
the exact same Model
T, Model A, that they've
been flying around
for thousands of years.
As a species, this is
actually fairly rare.
We make something.
And within five minutes, we're
thinking about, OK, next one,
I'm going to improve this.
I'm going to make this better.
I'm going to make that better.
So it turns out, over the
centuries or millennia,
we have taken a viewpoint
on fermentation in beer
making that's just always
wanting to make it better,
always wanting to
make it better,
make it better.
So we have refined
that process in a way
that is far beyond
the sophistication
of many other species.
Because they're just like,
eh, it's good enough.
It's mead.
We're good enough.
So it just turns out
that we make better beer.
And it's more common
than not, as I found out,
for various biologies
that, in some cases,
can be very different than ours.
But they still react to alcohol
in very much the same way
or, in some cases,
some other compounds
that we might think of ingesting
or smoking or whatever.
We might think, those
things, most of the time,
where we got them was
from another species
in the first place.
So there's another
species out there
that likes to drink and smoke
weed and do whatever else.
So it just turns out that we
make really good beer compared
to what else is out there.
So they love it.
>>EMERY: So it's strictly
just for entertainment?
>>CRAMER: They like to
relax and have a drink, too.
>>EMERY: Is there some sort of
Galactic Parliament or Galactic
Federation that you're
aware of out there?
>>CRAMER: There's a number
of entities and organizations
that coalesce for
different reasons.
So my understanding is there
is an Intergalactic Council.
And there's an
Intergalactic Senate,
which is a voluntary process.
So worlds that participate,
it's a voluntary thing.
There's no forced participation.
And a lot of their
policy decisions
are also not forced decisions.
They make policy decisions.
They say, hey, we talked
about this amongst ourselves
for the last decade or so.
We've come up with
a policy idea.
And then whoever is
cooperating with that body
can decide whether they want to
implement that policy or not.
So if you think politics
here on Earth is complicated
and a bit of a mess,
intergalactic politics
is even messier in some cases.
But you know,
democracy is messy.
So if you have dictatorial
forces, small groups of people
dominating what everybody else
does, that may simplify things.
But it usually doesn't
make things better.
What we often find even in
the intergalactic community
is that when everybody
gets together
to make democratic decisions,
things just go better.
But democracy is
not clean sometimes.
It's messy.
People got to to debate.
People got to argue.
I want this.
But I don't want that.
And I don't want
you to have that.
But I need this.
And that back and
forth can go on
for quite a while
before people come up
with an agreement of some kind
that they can all live with.
>>EMERY: Have you ever had
a personal relationship
with an ET?
>>CRAMER: Define
personal relationship.
>>EMERY: Well, let's just
say, have you ever dated one
or, you know, was involved that
way, in a caring, loving way?
>>CRAMER: Yes.
>>EMERY: And what was that like?
>>CRAMER: Yeah, she
was a humanoid species
in this Cassiopeian system.
They look very,
very much like us.
Their eyes are basically
the main difference.
So we have a circle
within a circle.
They have a swirl
Their language is
a little different.
They kind of vibrate their
sinus cavities when they talk.
I mean, we're talking sort
of about the vibration
of different air pockets.
And that was something
that they did.
Her name was Neha.
And her father was
a high value target
that we had to pull off of
one of their colony worlds
that were being aggressed upon
and managed to bring him back.
And I was given permission
by my base commander
when we got back onto the
ground to escort him home.
And his family was so
thrilled to see him
and wanted to treat me to dinner
and have me over and so forth
and actually became very
good friends with his family.
And his daughter and I
became romantically involved.
So yeah, it was fabulous.
I miss her.
>>EMERY: How does that work?
>>CRAMER: Well, I mean we're
very biologically compatible.
>>EMERY: Very.
>>CRAMER: So that's
how that works.
Very biologically compatible.
>>EMERY: I talk
a lot about that.
And you probably elaborate, too,
of the intermingling of species
in the galaxy is crazy.
>>CRAMER: Oh, so yeah.
Again, it's one of those things
that I hadn't thought about
and hadn't really
crossed my mind.
But the more time I spent
with this ambassadorial team
and the more species we met,
the more the conversations
came up about compatibility.
And there's two different
kinds of compatibility.
There is biological,
child-bearing compatibility,
the ability to interact
sexually and have a child.
There is also just
the compatibility
that your part connects to my
part and it feels good part.
And it turns out that
that relationship
and that connection--
a lot of species are able to
connect their parts together.
And I don't know how
else to say that.
>>EMERY: That's the
best way to put it.
Did you add and Neha or
any other extraterrestrial
ever have a child?
>>CRAMER: Yes, we have a son.
>>EMERY: And does he look
like the both of you?
>>CRAMER: Unfortunately,
I had to leave there
while he was still an infant.
So I honestly don't know
what he looks like right now.
I'm not sure how
much he looks like me
or how much he looks like her.
>>EMERY: So how would
he fit into society
there if he's half human?
>>CRAMER: I think they have a
pretty open-minded stance when
it comes to social issues
and interaction issues.
So her family love
the crap out of me.
And their extended family, you
know, was very fond and very
friendly to me and treated
me like one of their own,
invited me into their family
like one of their own.
It was quite wonderful,
to be honest with you.
So it was not a forbidden
relationship on their end
or on our end.
I wasn't the only Terran
soldier on that planet
who ended up with a girlfriend
or a boyfriend and ended up,
you know, making a hybrid baby.
So there were a few
that we left behind.
There were some inquiries.
There was an inquiry
before I left.
And it wasn't like a you
did something wrong inquiry.
It was more like we need
more data and information
kind of a thing.
So yeah, I mean, I
would imagine he's
going to grow up being
accepted, not just accepted.
But to be honest,
I think he's going
to be seen as having unique
qualities and unique features.
Because he's going to
have, you know, my DNA.
And so again, this
is a culture that
really likes to take
the best of a person
and find the best place for
them to be in their society.
So they're going to do
the same thing for him.
Whatever his talents
and desires about what
he wants to do in
his life, they'll
do their best to find him a
place that he's happy with.
Because that's what they do.
>>EMERY: Were you ever
encouraged or discouraged
by your commanders not
to associate with--
>>CRAMER: No, not at all.
They actually were
pretty much fine with it.
They basically-- their
criteria was simply
to be respectful of
their cultural standards,
be respectful of
their cultural norms,
and to not engage with
a member of the species
in a way that
would be considered
dysfunctional, harmful,
unhealthy, violent,
I mean, you know,
that sort of thing.
We were sort of given a
briefing on what was acceptable
and what was not acceptable.
And again, not
necessarily encouraged
or discouraged,
but not discouraged
and told that we
weren't allowed.
But again, they weren't
like, yeah, go ahead.
It was just more
like, you know, we're
going to be here for a while.
We're socializing.
If you find yourself, you
know, in a relationship,
here's some things to
consider and so forth.
>>EMERY: Is love the same way
how we feel it emotionally?
>>CRAMER: It depends
on the species.
I have certainly
experienced species
who have at least a
level of development
of understanding that we have
if not more so, as well as--
I would have to say the
insectoid species is
a good example of a species
that has a low emotional--
what do I want to say?
They're a low--
>>EMERY: Low
vibration, frequency?
>>CRAMER: Yeah, so they're
just not very emotional.
They have emotions.
They're just not very emotional.
So their concept of love
is more intellectual
than it is based on feeling.
But nonetheless,
I think they still
have an understanding
of a concept like that.
But species who, again, can
have a stronger emotional sense
of themselves or their
families or their cultures
can have a very deep
sense of familial love,
partnership love,
love of planet,
love of species,
love of civilization.
Yeah, so in some cases, I would
say as developed or more so
than our own.
>>EMERY: Have you seen a species
that was just oversensitive,
that you had to be debriefed on,
be careful around this species
because--
>>CRAMER: Yes.
There was an interaction on
the Intergalactic Space Station
where, because of this
species' sensitivity,
we didn't meet in the main room.
We had to meet in a
room downstairs that
was very isolated.
We had a debriefing.
Only members who
of the team who had
been able to demonstrate
a certain level
of emotional discipline
were allowed to go.
And we were actually given
some pharmaceutical drug
that repressed, you
know, sort of anger
and sort of intense
emotions so that it
muted what we were doing.
And we were encouraged to
feel blankly as possible.
Just because anything that
we experienced as emotion
could be really
intense for them,
which could cause them to
get very emotionally intense,
which would cause us to get
very emotionally intense.
So it was a very interesting
process for sure.
But yeah, it was a very--
it was a very
interesting conversation.
I mean, they-- in
fact, I would have
to say that the conversation
seemed to be directed more
by how they felt about
things than whether it
was intellectually or
mathematically satisfying.
So in a very crude way, I would
say that you know, their--
I mean, some species have
right and left brains.
But some species also have
more quadrants, you know?
>>EMERY: Many lobes, yeah.
>>CRAMER: Yeah,
many lobes, which
makes it very interesting
and very complicated
where you don't just
have a left and a right.
You have lots of different
sides, as it were.
So it was a
fascinating experience,
fascinating experience.
And when we ended the meeting,
you know, everyone stood up.
And each member of this
other species came up to us
and sort of gave
us this embrace,
a long almost awkward
kind of embrace,
you know, as a way
of sort of ending--
>>EMERY: Are you going
to let me go yet, Randy?
>>CRAMER: It was like, how long
am I going to have to do this?
OK, just wait 'til they let go.
They break first.
You know, because if you break
away, they can be offended.
They could be very
offended by that.
So yeah, but it was a little
awkward, a little emotionally
awkward, yeah.
>>EMERY: And what were
the standard protocols
for communication before
you go on these missions?
>>CRAMER: You know,
we're briefed.
So again, it depends
on where we're going,
what the species and their
level of civilization, language,
so forth.
So we're briefed and given
a sort of list of dos
and don'ts based
on their culture.
So you don't want
to go into a culture
and do something that's
considered offensive, that we
wouldn't consider offensive, but
they might consider offensive.
And so again, there's just
sort of a list of general
do's and don'ts so that we
don't cause any intergalactic
incidents.
>>EMERY: All right.
Do you have a favorite ET?
>>CRAMER: Oo, that's
a good question.
>>EMERY: That's a
good one, right?
>>CRAMER: Oh, that's a
really good question.
A favorite?
Wow.
I don't know.
I mean, like, when you say
that, like immediately, I've
kind of got a top 10 list
that sort of comes to mind.
Well, all right, so we did
encounter a Canis Major
species, like dog people.
So they were about
5 and 1/2 feet tall,
wore short of a charcoal gray
robe with a red fringe on it.
Well bathed, well
manicured, very clean.
But if you've ever
heard of a husky talk,
they don't bark they [BARKS].
OK, well, that's
how they talked.
So you know, they
talked like dog people.
And their racial
background and sort
of mixing in their own world
meant that they kind of
had some distinctive
racial groups that we would
consider like breed groups.
So if I were to say
there was a member
of the ambassadorial
team that was sort
of German shepherd-like,
sort of sheepdog-like,
I want to emphasize that
that's not exactly like.
But that's the most similar
thing that I could describe.
So it was very
interesting to be sitting
across the table
with dog people.
But one of the things I found
the most fascinating about them
is they were deeply
fascinated by us.
Because we have canines as pets.
And they felt that that
was a very interesting
dynamic relationship
that we had with them.
But interestingly enough,
they have pet primates.
>>EMERY: I was about to say,
do they have human pets?
>>CRAMER: Well,
they're primates.
So you know, like a monkey or
a marmoset kind of a thing.
And so we kind of
had this conversation
about this inverse
metaphysical, you know,
relationship
between our species.
And so they felt very friendly
towards us for that reason.
And we kind of had the same,
you know, feeling towards them.
So it was a very
positive interaction.
And definitely of
all my experiences,
that one really
sticks out for sure.
They were really very
pleasant to hang out with
and really smart and fun.
>>EMERY: Have you ever seen
a species that's Egyptian?
>>CRAMER: Interestingly enough,
there were a couple of times
that we were aboard the
intergalactic space station.
And on the other
side of the room,
there was this species that's
probably about between 50
and 60 feet tall, quite large.
They definitely had sort of
a hairstyling and, you know,
the beard with the
wrap around on it.
And they tended to prefer
a tunic-type clothing.
The fabric was amazing, like
had some amazing patterns to it.
That was the
immediate thing that I
saw when I looked in the room.
It was like, oh, that seems
very Egyptian, pharaoh-esque
>>EMERY: What was
the skin color like?
>>CRAMER: A variation that--
I mean, there was sort
of a pinkish color,
an orangeish shade, a reddish
shade, and a brownish shade.
So of the shades
that I observed,
there was probably four or
five different color tones.
>>EMERY: Did you notice
any personality traits?
Or were you just from
afar looking at them?
Did you notice anything
that stood out?
>>CRAMER: I mean, other
than their height?
>>EMERY: Well, this is the
largest being in the room.
So all eyes are on me.
>>CRAMER: Yeah.
Oh, absolutely.
Yeah, it was shocking.
I mean, there is nothing to make
you feel very, very tiny other
than being in the room of
something very, very tall.
So I mean like "Jack
and the Beanstalk" tall.
I mean, it felt very, very tiny
anywhere in the room with them.
It was a little intimidating.
>>EMERY: Very intimidating.
>>CRAMER: It was a
little intimidating,
little terrifying.
>>EMERY: These guys are the
most intimidating creatures
I have ever met.
>>CRAMER: Now, I hadn't
encountered them personally.
But the ambassador corps that we
were with, the ambassador with,
had spoken to them before.
And so I had a conversation
with him about them.
And he said that they
were incredibly like us
as human beings, not just
they looked like us physically
but were much taller,
but socially, culturally,
male-female dynamic,
very similar.
In fact, he would say that
the main difference between us
was height.
>>EMERY: Well, I
wonder why that is.
I mean, why do you think
we're so much like them?
>>CRAMER: Well,
interestingly enough,
that's a fascinating question.
Speaking to the members of the
ambassadorial corps about this,
they talked about how there are
many, many different species
all over the place.
But there does appear to be
a very interesting pattern
of repetition.
So while there are many,
many, many species,
it's not uncommon at all
to see things that seem
to repeat in nature, repeat--
you know, we're here.
Someone else is on the
other end of the galaxy.
But oh, look how
amazingly similar we are.
Or oh, here's a species we
met that's from over here.
And there's another
species way over here.
And look how incredibly
similar they are.
So some of it we think based
on our understanding of history
is some common ancestry,
some common genetic mixing.
But there's another
theory, which
is that the universe
replicates math that works.
And so these are
equations in the math
of the universe that work.
And so at some point,
the universe goes,
yeah, let's do that
math here again.
Because that worked over here.
Except maybe you
have a planet that's
much larger in a
red star system.
So they're 55 feet tall.
But it's an oxygen, nitrogen,
carbon dioxide atmosphere.
So organic, maybe humanoid
life would thrive there.
So it's a combination
of probably, you know,
creator species as well as
we think something innate
within the universe
or the cosmos itself
that repeats mathematical
equations that are successful.
>>EMERY: So visiting
these galactic stations
and on these
missions, did you also
notice any pets that other
extraterrestrials had on them?
>>CRAMER: Yeah, Neha
actually had this primate
that was, again, kind of like
a marmoset, about this big,
eyes about that big
around, actually pretty
intelligent and very friendly.
And the first time that
I was at their house,
he was absolutely
terrified of me.
But that was because
he smelled me.
And I smelled like something
he'd never smelled in his life
before.
So the first couple
of times I was there,
he would run to the other
room and kind of stare
around the corner.
But then I started
bringing snacks for him.
And then once I started-- once
he realized that I had snacks,
then, you know,
he would come over
and start crawling and looking
in my pockets for carrots
or whatever I'd brought for him.
>>EMERY: Was he
able to communicate?
>>CRAMER: Not verbally.
But I would say in the same way
that a dog or cat communicates
with us.
I mean, he was very intelligent.
And you could tell what he
was thinking or feeling based
on certain gestures,
body language,
so forth in the same way that
you can tell kind of what
a dog or a cat is thinking or
feeling based on their body
language and so forth.
>>EMERY: And what
was that, you know,
communication like with Neha?
Was it verbal?
Was it telepathic?
>>CRAMER:
Interestingly enough, I
would say that their
psionic development is
slightly more than ours.
So they have a--
it's more normal for
them as a species
to be trained and experience
psionic development
as they get older.
So their language is
definitely verbal.
But there is a
psionic component.
So there's a verbal-psionic
communication that's
happening at the same time.
And when I was
learning the language,
for a long time as I
was getting the words,
you know, she would--
she would tell me, she was like,
no, no it's not just the words.
She was like, you know, you want
to feel what you're thinking.
And you want to, you know,
think it your brain to my brain.
And it took a little practice to
engage in a verbal conversation
that was a mental focus
of what I was doing
with my mouth and my tongue
as far as the words were
concerned, but
having to also focus
on what my mind and my
thoughts and my emotions
were doing, which
we don't necessarily
have to do that as human means.
In fact, I think sometimes
we do the opposite,
where we can say one thing
and be thinking and feeling
something completely different.
And you can't do that with them.
You really have to sync
up what you're saying
and what you're thinking
and your feeling and be--
it requires a tremendous
amount of more focus.
But I would have to say
that their communication
ability, their communication
level was way deeper than ours.
And we're a very communicative
species, you know?
We actually are very verbally
and communicationally
expressive.
But they were even more so.
So conversations could get
very complex, deeply emotional
and psychological.
Yeah, just a whole
other level of--
I mean, think about sitting down
with your best friend, the best
partner you have
ever had and think
about the level of intimate
personal conversation
you can have with that person.
That's a standard conversation
with these people.
>>EMERY: It's a form of
telepathy, would you say?
>>CRAMER: Yeah, absolutely.
>>EMERY: Because the language
of the universe is telepathy.
>>CRAMER: Yes.
>>EMERY: In the future
it will be known.
>>CRAMER: Absolutely.
>>EMERY: Because I
like what you said.
Because I also experienced that.
It's an emotion thing.
I have to ground myself before
I go into a room with an ET.
Because if I'm upset and
I say, hi, in my mind,
it's like yelling hi.
So I understand when you
say you're verbally speaking
and you're giving the
intent of the emotion, which
I think people should
understand that's how it is.
They're reading all of
you, not just, you know,
the verbal part.
And I think it's great that Neha
said, put it in with the voice.
Put the energy the
emotion in with it.
And that's a great way
for people to practice.
I think you probably teach that.
>>CRAMER: Yeah, well,
I mean, and if you
think about just how we
communicate as human beings,
we have a verbal component.
We have a facial
expression component.
We have a body
language component.
So just think you're
adding more components
to that communication.
>>EMERY: How did you learn
the language, her language?
>>CRAMER: You know,
they taught me.
And again, because it's this
verbal-psionic thing, when
they were communicating
with me, they
were really attempting to
download the information
into my brain.
So I was able to
learn the language
much more quickly than I
would have if I was just,
you know, using Rosetta
Stone or something like that.
>>EMERY: Right.
Would you say it's a kind
of programming maybe, too?
Maybe they're downloading?
>>CRAMER: It felt
like that sometimes.
>>EMERY: It felt like.
>>CRAMER: Yeah, there
was a-- it's certainly
like there was struggle,
struggle, struggle, struggle.
And then there was just
a day when it clicked.
And then-- and I was
speaking fairly fluently.
But I remember
hearing that I wasn't
speaking like a grown up.
Like you know, I could tell that
I was enunciating my words more
like a child, so
that I was still--
there was still some precision
that I had to master, for sure.
But there was just a-- like
I said, struggle, struggle,
struggle.
And then there was a time
when it just clicked.
>>EMERY: So who
actually taught you?
>>CRAMER: I learned
from her family.
I mean, the more time I spent
with them, the more they
encouraged me to learn words.
You know, we'd sit
at the dinner table.
And they would hand me dishes
and say it in their language
and encourage me to ask for
things in their language.
It was-- it almost-- it felt a
little like being a kid again,
you know?
With parents trying to encourage
you to talk and how to speak
like a grown up.
So sometimes, it felt
a little condescending.
But I know it wasn't
meant that way.
We weren't taught or compelled
to learn the language on base.
They actually-- they're
very fast learners.
And so most of them
learned to speak
English in a much
quicker time than it took
us to learn their language.
So we engaged with
a number of them,
mostly with them
speaking English.
But there were, of
course, many people
in the community that didn't
speak a lick of English.
And if you ran into them and
you were speaking to them
in English and they
were speaking to you
in their native language,
it'd be like, you know,
going to Italy and not
being able to speak Italian.
You know, you'd be confused.
You wouldn't know exactly
what each other was saying.
But you know, people who had
a reason for business purposes
or because of their job,
they were interacting
with us more often than not.
They tended to speak
better English.
And they were pretty
good at it and, again,
didn't require or
necessarily encourage us
in professional circumstances
to speak their language.
But in a private interaction,
it just seemed more--
it made everybody
more comfortable
if I was speaking their
language than forcing them
by not speaking their language
to have to speak my language.
>>EMERY: Fascinating
stuff, Randy.
Thanks for coming
on the show again.
>>CRAMER: Thank
you for having me.
>>EMERY: I'm Emery Smith.
And this is "Cosmic Disclosure."
Until next time.
[THEME MUSIC]